# Leadership
# Drive file id: 1WmXNdG6SmJN5y4hZleY2u2gCxh4MXEm5
# Retrieved: 2026-08-12
# Source: owner's Google Drive "Sermons" folder (see ../CURATION.md)
# EXCLUDED FROM QUOTE EXTRACTION: Contains large verbatim, unattributed excerpts from a John Piper "renewal of the mind" sermon/article and a Forbes.com article by Shelley Zalis (quoting Robyn Ward) embedded inside the owner's own book manuscript. No reliable way to separate the owner's own writing from the copied blocks throughout a 50K-character document, so the WHOLE document is excluded from quote extraction. Never attribute lines from this file to the owner.

The Power of

Self - Leadership

  
  
  

  
  
  

DEDICATION

I greet you in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, Good morning. I am truly blessed to stand before you this morning.   
  
I am fully convinced that am standing before men and women of great destinies.

I am blessed to stand before you and further the knowledge of the truth that leads to godliness – in the hope of eternal life which God promised before time and and which at his appointed time has brought to light through the preaching entrusted to me by the command of God and our Savior.   
  
I am overly moved by this wonderful get-together of men endowed with great mind and who by God's own design, were placed into a path of high calling, a path that will restore many broken hopes and that will eternally influence many destinies at very critical instances of their lives.   

As we gather under this roof, I truly believe that you are the right people whom God has intended to use to bring a great revival into our country through the renewal of its foundation and leadership.   

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

Today I was invited to speak about Self Leadership.   
  
Perhaps lying deep within you, buried by the misconception that only special people are called to the lofty position of leaders is one of the greatest leaders of all time.   
  
I believe there is a leader in everyone waiting to serve his or her generation.   
  
It is essential that you change your concept of leadership now and see yourself the way your creator sees you. We are not all the same but we are all leaders in our own unique ways.   
  
• If a blind leader leads, both will follow into a ditch.   
  
  
  
  
  

  
  
  

  
  
  

CONTENTS:

Preface ……………………………………………………………………………….…...... 5

Introduction …………………………………………………………………….…....…. 7

Understanding Self – leadership

Divine authored Self -Leadership …………………………….…………………... 9

carnally induced self-leadership …………………………………….……..…..15

Understanding your true identity

Who am I ………………………………………………………….…………..…………. 20

Why am I here …………………………………………………………………………. 30

The Power of a transformed mind …………………………………….……… 35

What gifts do I have? ………………………………………….………………….… 40

Understanding times

Why was I born in this generation?………………………………..…………. 52

Am I any important anyway? ………………….………………..………….….. 64

Am I late? ………………………………………………………………..……………… 73

understanding your mandate / assignment

Standing out ………………………………………………………………………..…...85

I am equipped for my assignment……………………………….…….……. 100

Entering into your destiny.

Living a fulfilled life ………………………………………………………….….. 120

Obtaining your reward ………………………………………………………….136

Study Questions ………………………………………………………………...……. 148

Afterwords ……………………………………………………………………….…….. 152

Notes ………………………………………………………………………………………. 160

About the Author ……………………………………………………………..……… 165

  
  
  

Preface

Leadership is very critical in all spheres of life. All things rise and fall on leadership. Where good leadership is present, there is growth, progress and life; where there is wrong leadership, Stifling, withering and death looms all around.

leadership is a collective social process leading to direction, alignment of will, and a commitment toward the common goal. Leadership is achieved by influencing oneself or other people in a particular direction.

The word ‘Influence’ comes from the Latin influere, meaning to flow into. Influence is the ability of a person or leader to affect, to shape or to transform the opinions (convincing) and the behaviors or actions (persuading) on himself or other people without necessarily having a formal authority over people.

Influencing is soft power. Its independent of one’s positional power or hard power. It allows a leader to get things done and to achieve desired outcomes without compulsion.   
  

Any man cannot offer true leadership to his external surrounding until he offers leadership to himself. The Holy Book says “Whoever guards his mouth and tongue, keeps his soul from troubles. (a)”. The power of a person to guard or to control his character is not readily available on all men.

It’s easier to give instructions and advice to other people than to take in the same instructions and apply them on yourself. It’s even easier to ask people to do what you can cannot do by yourself.

I was inspired to write this book after I was invited to share about the topic of leadership at the University of Nairobi Medical Students retreat. As I shared about leadership, I saw a great hunger in the hearts of men desiring to understand about leadership.

  

This book speaks about two types of leadership: The Carnally induced self-leadership and the Divine induced self-Leadership. The carnally induced self-leadership arises from self-discipline and shear submission of consciousness until a routine meant to produce a certain result is achieved. This type of self-leadership is maintained by continuous high-level discipline that alters our character. This type of leadership is ignited by passion, a desire, anger or revenge. It is triggered by an event that occurred in ones life.

Divine induced self-leadership comes from God who created a man and designed him to carry out a specific mandate. Not only did he create the person but He also prepared him to carry out specific assignment(s) according to the will of God. Each man is designed and fashioned with all that he requires to carry out the assignments of God.   

genesis, purpose, limitations, and scope of the book and may include acknowledgments of indebtedness;

an introduction deals with the subject of the book, supplementing and introducing the text and indicating a point of view to be adopted by the reader.

Introduction

Our world is full of men and women who are in leadership positions and are often designated the title of a leader. They have been given the responsibility of decision making in their sphere of influence.

I would define leadership as follows: Leadership is the ability or the art of an individual or a group of individuals to influence / motivate and guide people to act towards achieving a common goal.

To understand more about self – leadership, we need first to understand what is leadership. Leadership is Influence. Influence is a latin word ‘influere’, which mean to flow into; like a river which flows into a lake or the ocean.

Influence is the ability of a person or leader to affect, to shape or to transform the opinions (convincing) and the behaviors or actions (persuading) of other people without necessarily having a formal authority over these person(s). Influencing is a soft power, independent of one’s positional power – hard power.   
  

From a Biblical perspective, “Leadership is the act of influencing/serving others out of Christ's interests in their lives so they accomplish God's purposes for and through them, from the overflowing deposits of God’s abundance in their heart”.

Paul speaking about leadership, he said “not looking into your own interest but each of you to the interest of the other” Philippians 2:4. The overflowing blessings deposited in your heart should overflow and fulfill other people’s needs. The greatest teacher of all ages Jesus Christ; said to his disciples the following words. “Whoever wants to become great among you should become your servant” Mathew 20:26.   
  

No man can offer true leadership to his external surroundings until he offers leadership to himself. The Holy Book says “Whoever guards his mouth and tongue, keeps his soul from troubles. (a)”. The power of a person to guard or to control his character is not readily available on all men.

Of the many leaders who are in leadership positions, few of them have understood, embraced and mastered the tenets of self-leadership. They have failed to understand that you can only lead others to the extent that you lead yourself. It’s like a tour guide: you can only take others where you have traveled before.It starts with your mindset.

If leadership is to influence, inspire, serve and hold the interest of others above yours, what then is Self – leadership?

Chapter 1: Introduction to Self – leadership

“Self-leadership is the practice of intentionally influencing your thinking pattern, feeling and behavior to achieve your desired objective/s”

Everyone wants to grow, to stretch and learn, but our default is often to operate on autopilot. Instead, let’s get comfortable with being uncomfortable. Look in the mirror, ask yourself the tough questions, and be honest with your answers. Ask yourself, “Am I the best that I can be?” Once you get used to doing it, you’ll probably even start to enjoy the ritual. Self-leadership may not sound as fun as rosé and a bubble bath, but it’s certainly more rewarding\! After all, if you don’t believe in yourself, no one else will.

When Paul the spiritual father to Timothy sat down on his desk and wrote the letter to his beloved son, he told him that it was of value to train or discipline or exercise the body for physical training is of some value - 1 Timothy 4:8a

The kind of training Paul is speaking about requires a strong commitment through a repetitive routine over a period of time. To develop a habit though training which builds character requires a very strong will and it demands a high standard of discipline. Paul spoke about physical training in relation to the achievements that men were able to obtain from Olympics games in Rome.

Self-leadership is developed by consistent training of the mind and body with a resultant effect of producing specific disciplines. It’s the process of influencing your own thoughts, emotions and behaviors with the purpose of creating change or to achieving a certain objective. Leadership in general is nothing more than a process of influence. Self-Leadership then is when we make it our purpose to influence ourselves. As you live on purpose as a leader, life changes dramatically and you are in the drivers seat.

Self-leadership can be explained as having a developed sense of who you are, what is your mandate /assignment, what you are expected to do (by both the people and Him who gives the conviction of your assignment) to complete the assignment and what is your destiny.

Over many years, different disciplines have been developed by man that are aimed to train people to produce particular results.

Self Leadership is ‘Inside-Out’ Leadership

Self-leaders are constantly developing, Self-awareness, Self-confidence and Self-efficacy (self-belief).

  - Self-awareness is about knowing your intentions and values, as well as knowing what can ‘push your buttons’ and derail you.
  - Self-confidence comes from knowing your strengths and abilities. As we take actions and develop skills, we become more confident.
  - Self-efficacy is the belief that whatever comes our way, we can handle it. We can take the feedback, accept, adjust and advance. With self-efficacy we can be more creative and innovative.

The first skill of self-leadership is to STOP and STEP BACK from the things that trigger us to react; because when we react we are being controlled by the trigger. The second skill is to consider our INTENTION. Intention is what is important to us, our values and what we are trying to achieve. By being intentional we can start to live a life of choice.

  - Intention precedes any purposeful action (behavior)- rather than a reaction. Actions have effects which the self-leader evaluates via feedback.
  - Influence is the result of purposeful action. We must positively influence ourselves and the world around us if we are to make a change.
  - Impact is how intention and influence is measured in the world.

There are two types of self-leadership. One form of leadership is inspired by the human will and desires – Carnally induced Self-leadership while the other form of leadership is inspired by God and his Divine will – Divine inspired self-leadership.

The Carnally Induced Self Leadership

This kind of leadership is the most common and widespread. It cuts across many people, fields and callings. Carnally induced leadership is normally birthed by the need to fulfill some kind of passion, inspiration or pleasure and it has no correlation with the divine assignment. It’s the kind of self-leadership that is driven by the end goal in mind - the achievements, good life and fame.

This kind of self-leadership is

The means to the end goal does not matter to the person; what matters is the result. The results are obtained by hook or by crook; whichever means as long as the results are achieved.

Many of us are still under this kind of Self - leadership. All the time, we are pursuing the fulfillment of our passion, we are obsessed with achieving our goals in an endeavor to satisfy our ego. Paul spoke about this type of leadership in Titus 3:3 and he said, “At one time we too were foolish, disobedient, deceived and enslaved by all kinds of passions and pleasures. We lived in malice, in envy, being hated and hating one another.”

The resultant effect of this kind of carnally induced self-leadership is

  - envy

<!-- end list -->

  - hate,

<!-- end list -->

  - looking for means to circumvent the system,

<!-- end list -->

  - Paying and receiving of bribes,

<!-- end list -->

  - Pride – Pride is not the haughty walk, beating up your chest and thumbing. Pride is when we fail to understand the will of God and we walk by our own judgment, wisdom and strength – of our bodies, our wealth and of our connections and networks.

Chapter 2 : The divine authored leadership

“This kind of leadership is birthed when a person understanding about God’s will and times. God’s will is signed by the revelation of the three areas that are hidden from every other man; we call them mysteries.

God leads in more ways than we will ever fully be aware.

Much of our ignorance of his ways to lead are because he humbly works behind the scenes or because he will always have a mysterious way about him.

But some of our ignorance lies in our own desire to stay crippled by the fall and deceived by the cunning lies foisted on us by the false leader of the world, Satan

The divine authored leadership which is revealed by the eternal master of our destinies.

From a Biblical perspective, self – leadership is many times defined or referred to as self – control. In proverbs 26:28, Solomon observed that like a city whose walls are broken through are a man who lacks self-control / self-leadership.   

To all who lack the virtue of self – leadership, Paul says this about them “Having lost all sensitivity, they have given over to sensuality so as to indulge in every kind of impurity, and they are full of greed.” Ephesians 4:19

The importance of self – leadership cannot be over amplified by Solomon when he said that better a patient person who has Self – control than a warrior who takes the city. Proverbs 16:32

As we delve more into this topic, God is going to reveal the mysteries that have been hidden from many people across ages, generations and season. Rejoice unto the Lord for it is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it is not given – Mathew 13:11

mystery is about hidden truths privy to a family of people... Its the body of information that is given to the saints.

  

There are realms of revelations that are not of blood and flesh. Some of this fundamental revelation that a man needs to have a quick grasp are:

  - Understanding your true identity
  - Understanding times,
  - understanding your mandate / assignment
  - Understanding our destiny   

When a man understand that he is not here on earth by chance or by any other design except of God, that is when he start to look at himself differently. When God created mankind, he made them in the likeness of God\!

Our identity is found in Him who created us. Many people will say, but we know that we were created by God\! Well, there are simple truths that falls off the basket and many people thinks that they know about God.

  
  
There is systemic nature to growth in knowledge and truth of who God is and consequently who we are in God - we start by an encounter -   
Our pursuit of God has no end

  

There are others that have received the revelation of who they are but they have not gained the wisdom of God that gives knowledge of the truths that leads to all godliness.

Revelation is useless until it is sequentially arranged. Some got one revelation and it killed them. One truth builds on the other truth. There is something that you know to secure what you are about to know.

Chapter 3: Who am I?

“People have struggled with this question of who am I? It’s much easier to describe other people with clarity and with higher level of accuracy than we can answer this basic question about who we are.

Many people have thought that they have understood about who they are. They have acquired confidence over from the conviction of their personal achievements or by the consolation that they have much better than their peers. While to some extent this might be true, but many who thinks that they have understood who they are have wondered away from knowing who they are. This beg the question, how do I get to know then who am I?

In order to know who you are then you need to know your origin. Where did you come from?

Where did I come from?

“And hath made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on all the face of the earth, and hath determined the times before appointed, and the bounds of their habitation; That they should seek the Lord, if haply they might feel after him, and find him, though he be not far from every one of us: . Acts 17:26-28

We are all made from one blood which is Adam. This statement explicitly tell us about our origin; that we all came from Adam. We are the offspring of the man that was created in Gods own image and likeness. An image is a resemblance of one item to the other and likeness is the congruence of character and behavior.

If therefore we were made from the first man, we truly bear the image and the character of God\! We do not only look like God but we have the spirit of God that works in us or for those who have accepted Jesus Christ. And if our origin is God, then we should do and behave like God\!

But why have many failed to understand who they are? If each one of us seek to know who he is, he must therefore start with knowing him whom he has inherited his qualities from.

that they should seek God, and perhaps feel their way toward him and find him. Yet he is actually not far from each one of us…. Acts 17:27 ESV

Any person who desires to know who he is must first seek to know who is Christ. Since man fell of from the original plan of God; that is to say that he lost much of the qualities of God, he must then seek to know him and to find him.

For in him we live, and move, and have our being; as certain also of your own poets have said, For we are also his offspring – Acts 17:28

To know who we are, we need to know who he is. For to live and to function and have our being flows from His likeness, without Christ we utterly lack our identity.

If you want to live and accomplish greatness, then you should seek expression from Christ Jesus. The substance that you are made of can only be traced back to Him. I have seen men who pursued their desires and passion to the very end only to realize that the satisfaction was not there and the time was not on their side. They realized what they were supposed to be a bit too late. It’s quite unfortunate.

At one occasion when I was sharing with the Medical Students of the university of Nairobi about self-leadership, one student confessed to have lost so much enthusiasm after studying for 7 years as a doctor. He felt no drive in the course and contemplated altogether leaving the studies. He felt a strong desire to go and be a missionary in his local area\! Of cause finishing his studies and be accredited as a doctor was very important but unfortunately his passion had waned off.

This calls for the question; why am I here for? What was I made for? What is my assignment?

We need to seek understanding of who we are.

You are a child of God.

But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name: John 1:12

You are not only a human being but you are a god too\! This understanding should bring a smile to your face. When you have received Christ as your Lord and saviour, the qualities that characterize God start to be reactivated inside you. Your mind start to have an injection of new life, new way of thinking, you start to understand the bigger picture about who indeed you are.

You no longer wander into the gross darkness of intellectual unawareness and you start walking in the light of true understanding and knowledge. You stop living for a passion and you start living for a course.

The understanding of who you are gives you back your identity. Your identity reveal unto you your assignment. Your assignment reveals your mandate.

Many times, people tend to think that some are better than others. There are some more luckier dudes than some; than me. Fortunately, this is not true.

Each one of us was chosen and designed to live at such a time as this by God. He not only chose us but also put in place our victorious living which has no blemish of failing and lamentation as we become the person that we are who operates in the fullness of their lives.

According as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love:Ephesians 1:4 KJV

Paul reveals another very important truth about who we are. He says

But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, an holy nation, a peculiar people; that ye should shew forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvellous light: 1 Peter 2:9

For us to be able to offer the rich and glorious praise to our God in our lives, we need to be aware that each one of us is designed differently from the other with Gods intention of producing a masterpiece praise clip from his life. When all masterclass pieces of praise are raised in pure excellence of our true self, so much glory ascends to our creator.

We are all different and unique to one another. All of us have been given an area to show the praise of God in a masterly level. What makes you feel like you are not special is your lack of understanding of who you truly are.

Chapter 4: Why am I here?

“According to my earnest expectation and my hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness, as always, so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life, or by death - Philippians 1:20 KJV

Our primary goal or rather God’s purpose for us is to glorify Him.

God created each one of us for his own glory. When you look at people that he created, while have them very unique gifting that are wide and distinct. The kind of thoughts that each man Profess are a miracle

Chapter 5.

“We are perfectly useless as Christians if all we do is conform to the world around us.”

The mind of a man is a very powerful tool. It has the ability to block our potential or to make us soar to possibilities beyond our wildest dream. Your point of view creates your reality, reality does not create your point of view.

When the mind is trained with the right course of information, it becomes a very powerful tool which is capable of producing unimagined results. It is very correct to state that the power of a man is demonstrated by the quality of his thoughts. The beauty of a person’s life is well displayed when the series of his quality thoughts are made manifest to the world to see.

Human mind has the power to go forth into the world that is not yet seen on our physical dimensions into the spiritual world which exist in the power of man’s imaginative mind, he explore it and come back with the result of the conclusion of his exploration and set a cause to bring that world into the physical world.

What a man can imagine, he can achieve it. A man can not imagine something which God has not allowed and which there is no possibility of manifestation. When the mind of a man is transformed by receiving a curriculum of information, a set of truth that is supposed to produce a quantity of result, that mind becomes a powerful tool in that given area.

Moving in the spiritual realm should be as much a part of a believer's routine as prayer, worship and reading Scripture. Yet all too often, Christians practice an intellectual faith, which lacks any supernatural punch. Healing, deliverance and signs and wonders are an inheritance for all followers of Jesus Christ. .

The Power of a transformed mind

But today I want to focus on the phrase in [Romans 12:2](https://biblia.com/bible/esv/Rom%252012.2), “by the renewal of your mind.” Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect.” We are perfectly useless as Christ-exalting Christians if all we do is conform to the world around us. And the key to not wasting our lives with this kind of success and prosperity, Paul says, is being transformed. “Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed.”

That word is used one time in all the gospels, namely, about Jesus on the mountain of transfiguration (the mountain of “transformation” — same word, metemorphōthē): “And he was transfiguredbefore them, and his face shone like the sun, and his clothes became white as light” ([Matthew 17:2](https://biblia.com/bible/esv/Matt%252017.2); [Mark 9:2](https://biblia.com/bible/esv/Mark%25209.2)).

More Than External Transformation

I point this out for one reason: to make the point that the nonconformity to the world does not primarily mean the external avoidance of worldly behaviors. That’s included. But you can avoid all kinds of worldly behaviors and not be transformed. “His face shown like the sun, and his clothes became white as light\!” Something like that happens to us spiritually and morally. Mentally, first on the inside, and then, later at the resurrection on the outside. So Jesus says of us, at the resurrection: “Then the righteous will shine like the sun in the kingdom of their Father” ([Matthew 13:43](https://biblia.com/bible/esv/Matt%252013.43)).

Transformation is not switching from the to-do list of the flesh to the to-do list of the law. When Paul replaces the list — the works — of the flesh, he does not replace it with the works of the law, but the fruit of the Spirit ([Galatians 5:19–22](https://biblia.com/bible/esv/Gal%25205.19%25E2%2580%259322)).

The Christian alternative to immoral behaviors is not a new list of moral behaviors. It is the triumphant power and transformation of the Holy Spirit through faith in Jesus Christ — our Savior, our Lord, our Treasure. “\[God\] has made us sufficient to be ministers of a new covenant, not of the letter but of the Spirit. For the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life” ([2 Corinthians 3:6](https://biblia.com/bible/esv/2%2520Cor%25203.6)). So transformation is a profound, blood-bought, Spirit-wrought change from the inside out.

then give yourself with all your might to pursuing this — the renewal of your mind. Because the Bible says, this is the key to transformation. “Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind.”

What’s wrong with the human mind? Why does our mind need renewing? And what does this renewal look like? And how can we pursue and enjoy this renewal?

The Problem with Our Minds

There are many who think that the only problem with the human mind is that it doesn’t have access to all the knowledge it needs. So education becomes the great instrument of redemption — personal and social. If people just got more education they would not use their minds to invent elaborate scams, and sophisticated terrorist plots, and complex schemes for embezzling, and fast-talking, mentally nimble radio rudeness. If people just got more education\!

The Bible has a far more profound analysis of the problem. In [Ephesians 4:23](https://biblia.com/bible/esv/Eph%25204.23) Paul uses a striking phrase to parallel [Romans 12:2](https://biblia.com/bible/esv/Rom%252012.2). He says, “Be renewed in the spirit of your minds.” Now, what in the world is that? “The spirit of your mind.” It means at least this: the human mind is not a sophisticated computer managing data, which it then faithfully presents to the heart for appropriate emotional responses.

The mind has a “spirit.” In other words, our mind has what we call a “mindset.” It doesn’t just have a view, it has a viewpoint. It doesn’t just have the power to perceive and detect; it also has a posture, a demeanor, a bearing, an attitude, a bent. “Be renewed in the spirit of your mind.”

“The problem with our minds is not merely that we are finite, but that we are fallen.”

The problem with our minds is not merely that we are finite, and don’t have all the information. The problem is that our minds are fallen. They have a spirit, a bent, a mindset that is hostile to the absolute supremacy of God. Our minds are bent on not seeing God as infinitely more worthy of praise than we are, or the things we make or achieve.

This is what we saw last week in [Romans 1:28](https://biblia.com/bible/esv/Rom%25201.28), “Since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a debased mind.” This is who we are by nature. We do not want to see God as worthy of knowing well and treasuring above all things. You know this is true about yourself because of how little effort you expend to know him, and because of how much effort it takes to make your mind spend any time getting to know God better.

The Bible says we have “exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal man” ([Romans 1:23](https://biblia.com/bible/esv/Rom%25201.23)). And the image in the mirror is the mortal image we worship most.

That’s what’s wrong with our minds. This illumines the relationship between verses 1 and 2 of Romans 12. Verse 1 says that we should present our bodies — that is, our whole active life — as a living sacrifice which is our spiritual service of worship. So the aim of all life is worship. That is, we are to use our bodies — our whole lives — to display the worth of God and all that he is for us in Christ. Now it makes perfect sense when verse 2 says that, in order for that to happen, our minds must be renewed. Why? Because our minds are not by nature God-worshiping minds. They are by nature self-worshiping minds. That is the spirit of our minds.

Two Other Biblical Diagnoses

Now before I turn to the remedy and how we find the renewal of mind God demands, consider two other biblical diagnoses of the problem. Consider the way Peter describes our mind-problem in [1 Peter 1:13–14](https://biblia.com/bible/esv/1%2520Pet%25201.13%25E2%2580%259314), “Prepar\[e\] . . . your minds for action. . . . Do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance.” There is an ignorance of God — a willful suppression of the truth of God ([Romans 1:18](https://biblia.com/bible/esv/Rom%25201.18)) — that makes us slaves to many passions and desires that would lose their power if we knew God as we ought (cf. [1 Thessalonians 4:5](https://biblia.com/bible/esv/1%2520Thess%25204.5)). “The passions of your former ignorance.” Paul calls these passions, “deceitful desires” ([Ephesians 4:22](https://biblia.com/bible/esv/Eph%25204.22)).

They are life-ruining, worship-destroying desires, and they get their life and their power from the deceit of our minds. There is a kind of knowledge of God — a renewal of mind — that transforms us because it liberates us from the deceit and the power of alien passions.

The other biblical diagnosis is in [Ephesians 4:17–18](https://biblia.com/bible/esv/Eph%25204.17%25E2%2580%259318), “You must no longer walk as the Gentiles do, in the futility of their minds. They are darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, due to their hardness of heart.”

Paul takes us deeper than Peter here. He penetrates beneath the “futile mind” and the “darkened understanding” and the willful “ignorance” and says that it is all rooted in “the hardness of their heart.” Here is the deepest disease, infecting everything else. Our mental suppression of liberating truth is rooted in our hardness of heart. Our hard hearts will not submit to the supremacy of Christ, and therefore our blind minds cannot see the supremacy of Christ (see [John 7:17](https://biblia.com/bible/esv/John%25207.17)).

The Holy Spirit Renews the Mind

This brings us finally to the remedy and how we obey [Romans 12:2](https://biblia.com/bible/esv/Rom%252012.2), “Be transformed in the renewal of your mind.” First, before we can do anything, a double action of the Holy Spirit is required. And then we join him in these two actions. The reason I say the Holy Spirit is required is because this word “renewal” in [Romans 12:2](https://biblia.com/bible/esv/Rom%252012.2) is only used one other place in all the Greek Bible, namely, [Titus 3:5](https://biblia.com/bible/esv/Titus%25203.5) where Paul says this: “\[God\] saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit.”

There’s the word “renewal” which we’ve seen is so necessary. And it is renewal “of the Holy Spirit.” The Spirit renews the mind. It is first and decisively his work. We are radically dependent on him. Our efforts follow his initiatives and enablings.

The Holy Spirit’s Double Work

Now, what is the double work that he must do to renew our minds so that all of life becomes worship? [2 Corinthians 3:18](https://biblia.com/bible/esv/2%2520Cor%25203.18) sets the stage for the answer:

And we all, with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another. For this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit.

What does the Spirit do to “transform” us into the image of the God-exalting Son of God? He enables us to “behold the glory of the Lord.” This is how the mind is renewed — by steadfastly gazing at the glories of Christ for what they really are.

But to enable us to do that, the Spirit must do a double work. He must work in two directions: from the outside in and from the inside out. He must work from the outside in by exposing the mind to Christ-exalting truth. That is, he must lead us to hear the gospel, to read the Bible, to study Christ-exalting writings of great, spiritual men, and to meditate on the perfections of Christ.

This is exactly what our great enemy does not want us to do according to [2 Corinthians 4:4](https://biblia.com/bible/esv/2%2520Cor%25204.4), “The god of this world \[Satan\] has blinded the minds of the unbelievers, to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ.” Because to see that for what it really is, Paul says, will renew the mind and transform the life and produce unending worship.

“The Spirit renews the mind. It is first and decisively his work.”

And the Spirit must work from the inside out, breaking the hard heart that blinds and corrupts the mind. The Spirit must work from the outside in, through Christ-exalting truth, and from the inside out, through truth-embracing humility. If he only worked from the outside in, by presenting Christ-exalting truth to our minds but not breaking the hard heart and making it humble, then the truth would be despised and rejected. And if he only humbled the hard heart, but put no Christ-exalting truth before the mind, there would be no Christ to embrace and no worship would happen.

What Then Shall We Do?

What then do we do in obedience to [Romans 12:2](https://biblia.com/bible/esv/Rom%252012.2), “Be transformed in the renewal of your mind”? We join the Holy Spirit in his precious and all-important work. We pursue Christ-exalting truth and we pray for truth-embracing humility.

Listen to rich expositions of the “gospel of the glory of Christ.” Read your Bible from cover to cover always in search of the revelation of the glory of Christ. Read and ponder the Bible-saturated, Christ-exalting writings of great, spiritual men and women. And form the habit of meditating on the perfections of Christ. And in it all pray, pray, pray that the Holy Spirit will renew your mind, that you may desire and approve the will of God, so that all of life will become worship to the glory of Christ.

God is a God who reveals truths that are 'mysteries' to the ordinary but great treasure to the called through a process called transformation. For you to operate effectively in the Kingdom, you need to move from one glory to the other. The move occurs when there is a transformation shift that occur in our mindset through the correct grasping of the word of truth.   
  
When your mind is transformed to a particular level, you are ushered into a different dimension of reality commensurate to the degree of your transformation.   
  
  
Transformation does not happen by coincidence or by chance. Transformation is developed, it's initiated by learning the truths of the word of God.   
  
Truth in itself may not free you. But it needs to be sequentially arranged. The transformation happens by the change of your mindset from one dimension of truth to another dimension of truth.   
  
For a true transformation to occur, you not only align yourself with a particular set of truth but you embrace the truth such that you become one in the truth.   
  
Romans 12:2   
  
And do not be conformed to this world \[any longer with its superficial values and customs\], but be transformed and progressively changed \[as you mature spiritually\] by the renewing of your mind \[focusing on godly values and ethical attitudes\], so that you may prove \[for yourselves\] what the will of God is, that which is good and acceptable and perfect \[in His plan and purpose for you\].   
  
  
Don’t become so well-adjusted to your culture that you fit into it without even thinking. Instead, fix your attention on God. You’ll be changed from the inside out. Readily recognize what he wants from you, and quickly respond to it. Unlike the culture around you, always dragging you down to its level of immaturity, God brings the best out of you, develops well-formed maturity in you.   
  
conforming is a change from outside to the inside. You become like the FLUID inside a container. You take the shape of the container.   
\- transformation is the change that happens from inside out. You become the influencer of your environment and situations.   
  
There is nothing as powerful as a transformed life: Do not stand at the path of a transformed mind for it can do all things that it set out to do.   
\- When a mind is transformed, it have such a capacity to attract things that are mind boggling.   
\- A transformed mindset holds the ability and the power to retain all things gotten by understanding. If you can not keep something, the thing was not gotten by understanding.

Genesis 11:4-6 - Then they said, “Come, let’s build ourselves a city and a tower that reaches Heaven. Let’s make ourselves famous so we won’t be scattered here and there across the Earth.” God came down to look over the city and the tower those people had built. God took one look and said, “One people, one language; why, this is only a first step. No telling what they’ll come up with next—they’ll stop at nothing\! Come, we’ll go down and garble their speech so they won’t understand each other.”   
  
\- A transformed mind has a level of power commensurate to their level of transformation.   
\- A transformed mind taps into the already established principles of the word of God at the dimention of transformation.

Steps to Change

Change is not possible unless we are aware that it can and should happen. Begin by paying attention to the thoughts you have every day. Write them down. Is there a pattern to your thinking?

Once you have identified the pattern, step back and take an honest look at your life. Are there repetitive experiences in your life and if so do they align with your thinking.

Start to implement change by using the Law of Substitution. Every time you have a negative thought substitute it with a positive thought. Be honest and make the substitution, don’t be hard on yourself for having the thought, simply turn it around.

Turn off the news. The news reports are mainly negative and continue to perpetuate a state of fear and uncertainty. Choose the stories and facts that you will allow to be stored in your subconscious.

Understand that what you focus on multiples. This is the Law of Growth and is one of the most power reasons to be aware of what you are thinking. Return to steps 1 and 2 and have another look to see if your focus is manifesting in your life.

There are several healing modalities that support this change process. In your community there will be Reiki Practitioners, Access Bars Practitioners, Yoga Instructors, Meditation Groups, and the list goes on.

Life coaches do not focus on your story or what has happened in the past, but rather concentrate on where you are today and support your intention to implement change, to move forward. Life coaches understand the power of thought and provide you additional tools for replacing your associative, limiting memories with goals and tools for forming new, life affirming habits.   

Before the beginning of time, God appointed for each man the times when he will be born and when he will die. “For he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be Holy and blameless in his sight.”

And in the established times, he set apart the work/ mandate/ assignment which each one of us will is by design mandated to do.   

The above two are not enough if a man will not understand who he is. This understanding is absolutely critical if any man will live a purpose driven life.   

Its this realization that makes some to arise and stretch forth their hands to God to get hold of their divine assignments while other are left clinching to the passions and cravings of their desires.   

When any man fails to understand the truths as we have stated here above, Times, Identity, Assignment and Destiny, they are left to operate in their darkened understanding which is separated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them due to the hardening of their hearts.

It is sad to see that this is the state of many people who continues to operate in the state of their former old self, which is being corrupted by its deceitful desires;

  
  
  

When the spirit of God gives a man the wisdom which is enhanced by the revelation of who he is and his divine mandate / assignment in Christ Jesus, that man undergoes a mind-shift, a complete regeneration that is founded on the foundation of Eternal God\!   

divine authored leadership comes when we experience the washing of rebirth and renewal by the Holy Spirit. Titus 3:5.   

Paul says in Ephesian 4:23 that “to be made new in the attitudes of your mind, and to put on the new self created to be like God in true righteousness and holiness”

  - The latter leadership is proportionate to our divine mandates.
  - The leader within you comes alive when you discover your purpose, your life's vision, and your potential. And when you set out to fulfill them without compromise.
  - The only way to become the leader you are meant to be is to recognize that leadership is your God-given calling and to return to his original purpose for you.
  - Good leaders not only know where they are going, but they can inspire others to go with them.

  
  
  

Understanding who we are.

Who you are was not designed and determined when you were conceived. Who you are was created before time was made. In the beginning, you were within Gods mind, you were in the heart of God. Your being here today did not mark your beginning for existence, it marked the manifestation of the plan of God concerning you.

Paul, in 2 Timothy 1:1, he understood so well who he was. He says, “Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ By the will of God”.

When you understand who you are in Christ Jesus, you no longer wadle in the deception of passion, but you walk steadily in the knowledge of the truth that leads to godliness which has value for all things.   

The greatest wisdom is revealed when a man comes to the understanding of who he is in God.

  

Knowing our mandate.

At any given time, Paul was conscious of who he was in Christ, He also understood very well his mandate and assignment. In 1 Timothy 1:1, the Bible says: Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the command of God our savior and of Jesus our hope.

His assignment was to be an apostle and his mandate was   

Paul says in Ephesian 2:10 “ For we are God’s handiwork / workmanship, created in Christ Jesus, to do the good works, Which God prepared in advance for us to do.

Notes taken for rethinking and paraphrasing.

Introduction to chapter1

Through ages, people have continued to define their roles specifically on matter of leadership through a myriad of reasons which are subjective to varying external factors that has surrounded them at all times. Some of these reasons falls under broader but familiar categories like gender, color, creed, social-economic status and many more. These external factors have continually influenced people to take up different paths in life.

Leadership is without doubt the most essential part of any organization and is key for the efficient performance and continued development of an organization.

In every level of human engagement, there have always existed two types of people; the leader and the follower. Below a leader is a follower and above him is a leader while he become a follower. As the hierarchy of position moves up, these identities change. At one point, the leader becomes a follower under the leader above him. The cycle continues until we get to the highest level of leadership. What about the leader who is at the highest level of the hierarchy, can he be a follower? Unfortunately, even such a leader is following some form of passion\!

These form of hierarchical leadership demands accountability from the lower level of leadership to the higher level of leadership.

13,636 viewsNov 15, 2019, 11:59am

# Self-Leadership Is The New Self-Care: Why This Ritual Is Your Secret To Success

[Shelley Zalis](https://www.forbes.com/sites/shelleyzalis/people/shelleyzalis/)

[ForbesWomen](https://www.forbes.com/forbeswomen)

GETTY

If you’ve ever been on a plane, you’ve heard the following from flight attendants: In the event of an emergency, put your own oxygen mask on first. I’ve heard this safety spiel thousands of times (I’m only half-joking when I say that I live on United Airlines\!), but each time it resonates with me. After all, if we don’t first help ourselves, how can we help others?

The same applies for leadership. In order to be a great leader of others, you have to first take care of yourself. Everyone wants to know how to move up the corporate ladder, but they don’t realize that it really starts internally, with you. That’s where self-leadership comes in. To learn more about the concept, I spoke to Robyn Ward, a dear girlfriend, an esteemed leadership and performance coach, CEO of FounderForward, and of course, part of The FQ pack. She’s spent more than two decades working alongside founders and executives, and she knows what makes a peak performer. Here are five tips she shared about investing in yourself to become a better leader:

  - Self-care. People don’t leave companies; they leave managers. So, if you don’t show up as a happy, healthy person, it will impact others. Self-care is the key to manifesting anything in life, notes Robyn. “There is this new thing that self-care is rosé on Sundays with a bath. Not to say that I don’t like rosé and a bath, but that’s not all self-care is. Self-care is consciously built into everything you do throughout your day. It is the physical, mental, and spiritual rituals built into your life.”
  - Self-awareness. If you want to be the best leader and best person you can be, self-awareness is key. However, it doesn’t come easy and it’s a big blind spot for lots of people. “Being self-aware is knowing who we are and how we show up, what our strengths are, what our weaknesses are,” says Robyn. “It’s the core of authenticity — and authenticity leads to trust.”
  - Self-improvement. Embrace the person you are, but also be on the lookout for ways to evolve. The leader you are today is not necessarily the leader you need to be to advance in your career. Robyn recommends taking an intentional approach: “Every human should be intentionally growing. Set three to five KPI growth agendas for the year. Ask yourself, ‘What are a few things I need to work on to get to SVP?’” She also suggests having an “accountability partner” who helps you stay on track. This can be a partner, a friend, or even a career coach.

GETTY

Today In: [Leadership](https://www.forbes.com/forbeswomen)

  - Self-management. At a certain point, how you show up each day is more important than how smart or experienced you are. You can learn a million skills, but if you’re not able to handle the grind, you won’t be able to put them to good use. Robyn puts self-management into two buckets: time and attention. “Work smarter, not harder — and as much as you manage your time, also manage your mindset,” she advises. “EQ has been found to be two times as important as IQ. Great managers have a high EQ, so it’s key to work on your emotional intelligence. Think about how you manage your thoughts and your feelings, both at work and at home.You can do this by journaling, so you’re more in touch with your emotions.”
  - Self-reflection. The most successful leaders build self reflection into their lives. According to [Harvard Business Review](https://hbr.org/2017/03/why-you-should-make-time-for-self-reflection-even-if-you-hate-doing-it), people who spent 15 minutes at the end of the day reflecting about lessons learned performed 23 percent better after 10 days than those who did not reflect. As Robyn notes, “Take time at the end of the day, month, or year to reflect on how you showed up.” Our lives are so busy, and it can be tempting to let this exercise fall to the wayside, but Robyn stresses how important it is: “I remind people how much productivity you’re losing by not reflecting. You’re not just reflecting on what you’ve done, but also how you’re thinking and feeling. Also, you’re a mirror for your team, regardless of the level you’re at. Think about how much you will elevate your team by instituting time for self-reflection.”
